DO NOT MERGE | EDU-1181: Add High-availability Namespace Coverage (#2757)
temporalio/documentation: docs/production-deployment/cloud/multi-region.mdx

Reviewer: I don't know where we'd want to add this but, here's a table of regions, private link endpoint, and record to override:

```markdown
| Region | PrivateLink VPC Endpoint | DNS Record Override |
|---|---|---|
| `ap-northeast-1` | `com.amazonaws.vpce.ap-northeast-1.vpce-svc-08f34c33f9fb8a48a` | `aws-ap-northeast-1.region.tmprl.cloud` |
| `ap-northeast-2` | `com.amazonaws.vpce.ap-northeast-2.vpce-svc-08c4d5445a5aad308` | `aws-ap-northeast-2.region.tmprl.cloud` |
| `ap-south-1` | `com.amazonaws.vpce.ap-south-1.vpce-svc-0ad4f8ed56db15662` | `aws-ap-south-1.region.tmprl.cloud` |
| `ap-southeast-1` | `com.amazonaws.vpce.ap-southeast-1.vpce-svc-05c24096fa89b0ccd` | `aws-ap-southeast-1.region.tmprl.cloud` |
| `ap-southeast-2` | `com.amazonaws.vpce.ap-southeast-2.vpce-svc-0634f9628e3c15b08` | `aws-ap-southeast-2.region.tmprl.cloud` |
| `ca-central-1` | `com.amazonaws.vpce.ca-central-1.vpce-svc-080a781925d0b1d9d` | `aws-ca-central-1.region.tmprl.cloud` |
| `eu-central-1` | `com.amazonaws.vpce.eu-central-1.vpce-svc-073a419b36663a0f3` | `aws-eu-central-1.region.tmprl.cloud` |
| `eu-west-1` | `com.amazonaws.vpce.eu-west-1.vpce-svc-04388e89f3479b739` | `aws-eu-west-1.region.tmprl.cloud` |
| `eu-west-2` | `com.amazonaws.vpce.eu-west-2.vpce-svc-0ac7f9f07e7fb5695` | `aws-eu-west-2.region.tmprl.cloud` |
| `sa-east-1` | `com.amazonaws.vpce.sa-east-1.vpce-svc-0ca67a102f3ce525a` | `aws-sa-east-1.region.tmprl.cloud` |
| `us-east-1` | `com.amazonaws.vpce.us-east-1.vpce-svc-0822256b6575ea37f` | `aws-us-east-1.region.tmprl.cloud` |
| `us-east-1` | `com.amazonaws.vpce.us-east-1.vpce-svc-0b06bbbd81fd41222` | `aws-us-east-1.region.tmprl.cloud` |
| `us-east-2` | `com.amazonaws.vpce.us-east-2.vpce-svc-01b8dccfc6660d9d4` | `aws-us-east-2.region.tmprl.cloud` |
| `us-west-2` | `com.amazonaws.vpce.us-west-2.vpce-svc-0473f53028c65d8fb` | `aws-us-west-2.region.tmprl.cloud` |
| `us-west-2` | `com.amazonaws.vpce.us-west-2.vpce-svc-0f44b3d7302816b94` | `aws-us-west-2.region.tmprl.cloud` |
```

Author: Great table. Added, along with a note that `sa-east-1` is not yet available for use with MRN.

When Temporal triggers failovers, you're notified that the failover has happened via the audit log.
You can also set alerts for Temporal-initiated failover events.

The audit log contains information about failovers once triggered. You'll find "operation": "FailoverNamespaces" in the logs.
After a failover, you can check that the Namespace is active in the new region using the Temporal Cloud Web UI.

### Worker Deployment {#worker-deployment}

After enabling the multi-region Namespace, you don't need to further configure your Workers.
When a Namespace fails over to the standby region, the DNS redirection orchestrated by Temporal ensures that your existing workers can continue to poll the Namespace without interruption.
More details are available in the [Routing](/cloud/multi-region#routing) section below.

:::info
- When a Namespace fails over to a standby region, Workers will be communicating cross-region.

- In case of a complete regional outage, Workers in the original region may go down as well as the original Namespace. 
  To keep Workflows moving during this level of outage, deploy a redundant set of Workers to your standby region.

:::

### Routing {#routing}

> When you enable multi-region for a Namespace, we replace a Namespace's DNS record `<ns>.<acct>.<tmprl_domain>` with a CNAME to a regional DNS record in the format `<region>.region.<tmprl_domain>`.

Author: Adopted as suggested but I broke the final clause into its own sentence to limit sentence length. Thank you!

This regional DNS record lives in a subzone: 

```
region.<tmprl_domain>

> ```

Author: Deleting these lines then and seeing if there's a better place to move them.

> Clients resolving the Namespace’s DNS record are directed to the regional DNS record.

Author: Uppercased N for namespace and adopted. Thanks

During failover, we change the target of the Namespace DNS record from one region to another.
This should be at most a 30-second delay for clients to converge to the newly targeted region.
Using a CNAME record supports a lower <a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Time_to_live">TTL</a> for the record (configured at 15 seconds).
As a rule of thumb, DNS reconciliation is not expected to take more than twice (2x) the TTL.

#### PrivateLink routing {#privatelink-routing}

:::important
- At failover, routing is completely transparent for multi-region customers _unless_ you use PrivateLink.
  This section describes how to configure routing for multi-region Namespaces for PrivateLink customers only.

:::

PrivateLink customers may need to change certain configurations for multi-region Namespace use.
Routing configuration depends on networking setup and use of PrivateLink.
You may need to:

> * set an override DNS; and 

Author: Adopted. Thanks

* ensure the network connectivity between the two regions.

![Customer side solution example](/img/multi-region/private-link.png)

Your regional DNS must be reachable through IP addresses local to your network.
A subzone for `region.<tmprl_domain>` enables you to override the regional DNS to make sure traffic is routed internally.

> You can check the Namespace's active region using the Namespace record CNAME, which is public.

Author: Updated

To set up the DNS override, you override specific regions to target the relevant IP addresses (e.g. aws-us-west-1.region.tmprl.cloud to target 192.168.1.2).
Using AWS, this can be done using a private hosted zone in Route53 for `region.<tmprl_domain>`.

> Link to that private zone to the VPCs you use for Workers.

Author: Adopted

> When your Workers connect to the Namespace, they first resolve the ` <ns>.<acct>.<tmprl_domain>` record, which then targets `<active>.region.<tmprl_domain>` using a CNAME, leading traffic to reach the internal IP you're using.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When your Workers connect to the Namespace, they first resolve the ` <ns>.<acct>.<tmprl_domain>` record, which targets `<active>.region.<tmprl_domain>` using a CNAME. That second DNS resolution is overridden by your private zone, leading traffic to reach the internal IP you're using.
```

Author: Updated!
